The Market Opportunity
A large, international bicycle firm has decided to enter a new segment of the bicycle business. It has recently licensed the technology to build carbon fiber bikes using 3D printing and a new economical form of carbon fiber. With this new technology, it will be possible to make bicycle parts anywhere in the world with carbon fiber, a material that is stronger, lighter, and now less expensive than the light metals. You have been recruited to lead a new marketing division to develop this market opportunity.

A New Kind of Bike Shop
Normally, bicycle stores will have 50 to 100 bicycles on display in order to have a male and female version of each brand/model in at least 3 sizes. With 3D printing, you will need only one copy of each model for sale. A much smaller outlet will actually be less crowded. You will be able to use the open space to your advantage to give customers personal attention for fitting the bike to their exact size requirements.


A New Price Point
Perhaps the best part of this innovation is how it will affect the pricing of a carbon fiber bike. Current carbon fiber bikes are very expensive. The 3D manufacturing process and new carbon fiber will cut costs substantially, allowing the new bikes to be priced well below the other carbon fiber bikes on the market. The price range of the new bikes will actually be low enough to compete with higher-end, metal bikes.

The Target Market
3D-printed, carbon fiber bikes will appeal to the higher end of the conventional bike market. This subset of customers is more affluent than the typical bike purchaser. They cannot afford the current high-end carbon fiber bikes, but have coveted them for a long time. Your business will give them the opportunity to own an elite bike at a price that is affordable, although just barely. The status and pleasure of riding a carbon fiber bike is more than enough to push even economically-minded customers to dig deep into their pocketbooks to own one of these bikes. You must determine the profitability of this niche. If you are able to lower prices and/or add more value, perhaps more bike riders will switch as well.

Consumer and Business Advantages
The consumer advantages to a 3D-printed, carbon fiber bike will be impressive:

The bike will be far lighter than a metal bike and, therefore, much easier to pedal;
The ride will be more comfortable because carbon fiber dampens vibrations from rough surfaces;
Riders will experience less fatigue and more comfort because the 3D-printed bike frame will be custom-built to their gender, size, shape, weight, and performance requirements;
Riders will feel more energized (they will be working less and be more comfortable);
The bikes will be much more affordable than currently available carbon fiber bikes; and
More people will get to ride the latest, greatest, best-looking, carbon fiber bike that only the most committed, elite riders could justify buying today.
The business advantages to 3D printing will be just as impressive:

Production will be moved closer to the customer because less equipment and no inventory storage is required, even an inexpensive warehouse near the bike shop can be a fabrication site;
There will be no need for inventory because the bicycles will be custom-built as orders are received at the bike shop;
Debt and equity requirements will be far less because there will be no money tied up in inventory at the production facility, in distribution centers, or in the stores;
There will be no shipping costs to move inventory through the supply chain;
A bicycle shop will be smaller, less expensive, and yet more esthetically pleasing; and
Consumers will be able to quickly get the perfect bike, resulting in fewer lost sales (more revenue).
New Division
As you might expect, there are many unanswered questions about the marketing of this product line. Corporate Headquarters does not want to distract employees with something that is not well tested nor to disrupt its current distribution system. Therefore, it has formed a new marketing division to pursue this business opportunity.

Corporate Headquarters wants this division to stand on its own two feet. Therefore, the new division will not be associated with the parent company in any way. It has to create its own identity. From the public’s point of view, it is a brand-new company.

This is where you come in. You have been asked to start up and manage the new division/company. You will be responsible for developing and test marketing a new line of carbon fiber bicycles.

You will have control of the new division for the next six quarters (or decision periods). Within this time frame, Headquarters expects to see a self-sufficient and profitable division.

The investments to build your company are meant to create profits.
Measuring Success
Corporate Headquarters will use a balanced scorecard to measure the marketing division's performance. Your total business performance will be based upon its financial performance, marketing effectiveness, and market performance. You will be able to see this performance score starting in quarter 3. A total score will be computed for each firm competing in the Marketplace.

The cumulative balanced scorecard combines these areas quarter after quarter.
Achieving Corporate Headquarters' expectations will not be easy. It will require all you already know about marketing as well as everything you will learn throughout the launch of your new division.




Markets
Your company will be introducing a new line of carbon fiber bicycles into four geographic markets.

The map shows four geographic markets.The map shows the four markets are New York, Rio de Janeiro, Amsterdam, and Bangalore.
The four geographic markets have been selected as sites for test marketing. Each city represents a different market opportunity. The mix of customers with different potential demand will vary across each of them.

The current state of the carbon fiber bicycle market

The carbon fiber bicycle market is a niche segment of the bicycle industry. Almost all carbon fiber bikes are very expensive. As a result, sales have been limited to high performance road and mountain bikes by elite users. Many other riders would love to have the benefits of a carbon fiber bike, but they have been too expensive to purchase. With the introduction of moderately priced carbon fiber bikes, all of this could change. If things unfold as expected, this business could actually be in the introductory stage of the product life cycle.
Other firms will be entering the market at the same time that you are. In fact, the whole bicycle industry is interested in 3D printing. Each firm will be testing the market for these new carbon fiber bikes.
You will be selling through company-owned sales outlets. You will not be selling through third-party bike stores at this time. There are too many unanswered questions and it would be best to retain complete control of this test market. Plus, you may discover that this new distribution channel will be viable and worthy of expanding.
All competitors, including your own company, will start with exactly the same resources and knowledge of the market.
Market Segments Among Bicycle Buyers
Relative comparison of the 3 segments. Recreation is the largest market, satisfied with a little performance at a lower price. Speed is the smallest market willing to pay most for the most performance. Mountain is the middle-sized segment, demanding something between the other two.
The bicycle market can be divided into three major market segments - Recreation, Mountain, and Speed. Each segment has its own set of needs and wants. Each one also has a price point where they are willing to consider a purchase, should you be able to satisfy their needs and wants.

These three segments are portrayed in the accompanying graph. The circles are positioned to indicate the price and performance requirements of each segment. The size of the segment is portrayed by the size of the circle. Each segment has different needs and wants and requires a different market strategy to appeal to it.

The Recreation segment is looking for fun and a little exercise. These consumers are very sociable and enjoy biking with friends and family on relatively short excursions. These consumers are not as hardy as other bike riders; therefore, comfort and ease of handling are very important. Bikes that appeal to this segment take on elements of both mountain and commuter bikes. They need to be durable and able to handle bike paths and other light terrain. Occasionally, they need to be able to carry small items, such as picnic lunches, light packages, and even a few groceries.

This segment is moderately price sensitive. They will pay extra for comfort and ease of use, but not for much more.

The Mountain segment wants a bike that can be taken on off-road trails. Consumers in this segment use a bicycle for adventure, exercise, and sport. They like the challenge of riding on difficult terrain. They take pride in their skills, and many love the excitement and adrenaline rush that comes with tackling hills, downhill runs, and cross-country treks. Vigorous exercise makes it all the better.

Consumers in this segment are willing to pay a premium for features that enable them to traverse difficult terrains. Sturdy, powerful, and agile bikes are highly desired.

The Speed segment is focused on speed, as the name suggests. It is looking for the lightest, fastest, most aerodynamic bike on the market. Pedaling quickly across the countryside provides the exercise and sport these bikers desire. They enjoy the competitive spirit and comradery of races and group rides, but are just as happy to bike alone.

These consumers love the physical challenge of long distance rides. They take pride in how healthy they must be to be fast, strong, and competitive. They are willing to pay a high price and sacrifice comfort and utility to get an edge over other riders.
























Quarter 1: Organize the division
Name the company.
Analyze the market survey.
Choose the initial target segment.
Define marketing responsibilities.
Schedule the opening of one sales outlet.


Quarter 2: Go to test market
Test market.
Design a brand for the target segment.
Hire service and sales personnel.
Price the brand.
Design a small advertising campaign.
Schedule the opening of a new sales outlet.


Quarter 3: Skillful adjustment
Review the market data from the test market.
Adjust the division's strategy and tactics (brand design, pricing, advertising, service and sales personnel, and sales outlets) as needed.
Build your Internet marketing campaign.


Quarter 4: Expand the market offering
Adjust the division's strategy and tactics (brand design, pricing, advertising, service and sales personnel) as needed.
Select a secondary segment to target and design a marketing program to go after it.
Design a new brand.
Price the brand.
Hire service and sales personnel.
Design a new ad.
Schedule the opening of a new sales outlet and hire new service and sales personnel.


Quarter 5: Enhance the market offering
Expand your assortment of brands by introducing the new features developed by your research and development (R&D) department.
Continue with market expansion by investing in advertising, sales people and new shops.
Expand Internet marketing by adding paid Internet ads.


Quarter 6: Refine the marketing strategy
Study the market data to determine how to better meet customer needs and surpass the competition through brand design, pricing, advertising, and distribution.
This represents the whole of the world that you will compete in. From this point forward, you will receive information as you need it. You will also be given an ever-expanding set of decisions to make. The sequence follows the way in which an entrepreneurial firm develops a new market in the real world.










The formula for success in business and marketing is very simple. Make lots of people happy and you can earn a lot of money. Here are the rules:

Find out what people want.
Give them what they want.
Tell them that you have what they want (advertise).
Collect the money for a job well done.
Sounds easy, right?
Of course, there are a couple of things that get in the way.

Problem	What can you do?
Not all customers are alike. One offer will not work for everyone. People have different tastes, preferences, needs, etc. As a result, many potential customers will wait until they find the 'right' solution for their needs. To paraphrase a famous quote, you can satisfy some of the people all of the time, but never all of the people all of the time. Demand may not be as great as you would like or hope.	Discover the differences in needs among your customers (market research), break the customers down into smaller groups with similar needs (segmentation), and then develop a strategy for each group (target marketing).
Everyone wants more for less. A lower price for the same goods should help in generating more demand and taking business away from your competition. Sure, you would like to sell for less, but you have to pay your expenses and earn a profit.	One solution to this pricing dilemma can be found in larger sales volumes. If you can generate large sales volumes, production costs per unit will usually drop. Lower costs for the goods sold will allow you to lower your prices and/or increase your profits.
How do you create larger sales volumes?	Offer a better product at a better price and tell everyone about it (advertising and sales force).
Keep in mind that there will always be people who want to make money in the same market as you. Competitors will always emerge and try to take your sales and profits.	Be a smart competitor. Study the customers' needs as well as what your competitors have to offer (benchmark) and then create and sell a better solution. You can usually find a group (segment) whose needs are not well served. Develop a superior strategy targeted at that group.
Customers will always gravitate towards the better offer.	Your job is never done. You must always check your offer against the customers' evolving needs (satisfaction level) and that of the competition (benchmark) and make sure you have the better product, price, promotion, and distribution.
Be the best at giving the customer what the customer wants. Then advertise to the customers about how good you are at meeting their needs. This should create lots of sales that will drive down your costs and allow you to offer good prices for good profits.
Of course, it is not this easy, but this is the essence of marketing.

Keep these guidelines in mind as you compete in Marketplace. If you follow them, you will be successful. You will be a winner in Marketplace!

Good luck!














Now that you have a feeling for the business in which you will compete, take a brief look at what is in store for you in the current quarter and in the near future.

In quarter 1, the goal is to set up your marketing division. There are only four decisions that you must make:

Name your company.
Review the market research.
Select an initial market segment to target.
Open a sales outlet for test marketing.
Looking ahead to quarter 2, you will complete the development of your marketing strategy and test market. In quarter 2, you will:

Design a brand to appeal to your initial target segment.
Set the selling price of the brand.
Hire service and sales personnel.
Design an advertising campaign.
In quarter 3, you will receive the results of the test market. This information will allow you to refine your marketing strategy and be more successful in the future.










Initial goal: to obtain an overall feel for the market

Your market research firm conducted a survey of potential end users. Your initial goal in reviewing the market research is to obtain an overall feel for the market. There are three market segments and four geographic markets. Each segment has a unique set of needs and wants.

Try to form a mental image of each segment. This is called profiling a segment.

Creating a profile for each segment will help you to select geographic markets for sales outlets, design new brands, price your products, and develop an advertising campaign.

YOUR TASK
Review the marketing data.
Decide on an initial marketing strategy.
Initiate your first tactical decision: choose the first sales outlet location.













Understanding what customers value
The market research data focusing on customer needs can be very helpful. It allows you to examine the costs and benefits of potential products. However, this data is incomplete because it does not tell you which specific features each segment might want. Customers are more concerned with benefits than with features. It will be your task to determine which features will deliver the desired benefits.

YOUR TASK
To help you select the right features for your target market, review your customers' needs and applications. The numbers within the table quantitatively indicate how important the need is to that segment.

A rating of 110 or higher indicates that the need is important to the segment. Ratings below 100 might suggest the opposite. That is, low numbers could potentially affect customer value in a negative way.

DECISION TIP
For each market segment, you can sort the needs by importance.
Customer value hierarchy
Remember that customers do not buy components or features, they buy benefits. At a higher level, these benefits help users to accomplish their goals and to realize certain values or end states.

It is your job to figure out how to deliver the value desired. A good way to start is to apply the logic behind the means-end hierarchy. Take the most important benefits desired by each segment and speculate on which components or services will be necessary to deliver these benefits.

Desired End States
Personal and organizational goals (core values, guiding principles): "Ends" which are served by the product/service "means".

comes from
Consequences
What the product does for the user (subjectively defined): Realizations, benefits, desired and undesired outcomes, sacrifices, costs, etc.

comes from
Attributes
What the product is (objectively defined): Features, activities, options, and parts.

The means-end hierarchy will be useful in designing your new brands. Understanding the relationship between features and benefits is a prerequisite to developing successful brand designs.

To learn more about Market Research, consult the Help file: Market Research. You may also find it useful to read the Match-up Benefits and Features section.









Consider the price that the market will bear.
Relative comparison of the 3 segments. Recreation is the largest market, satisfied with a little performance at
      a lower price. Speed is the smallest market willing to pay most for the most performance. Mountain is the
      middle-sized segment, demanding something between the other two.
    
Your brand design decision must also include a consideration of the price the market is willing to pay. There is always a price/performance trade-off. Higher performance features will generally cost more than lower performance features. Will the target market pay more for the additional capability?

Your Market Opportunity Analysis (MOA) should help you to determine how sensitive your target market is to price versus performance.

MOA is a systematic method for gathering and organizing information about a perceived market opportunity. Properly executed, an MOA will provide information about:

The macroenvironment and the forces that will shape the market opportunity in the future.
The market's structure and where your new product is likely to fit in the market.
The minimum requirements to serve the market as determined by profiles of end users, and competitors.
YOUR TASK
In the Workspace, take a look at the price your potential customers are willing to pay. These numbers are very rough estimates. You will need to do some test marketing to obtain better estimates of what the market is actually willing to pay.
DECISION TIP
The graphs and tables will show the approximate price each segment is willing to pay for the ideal brand. Consider these prices to be the maximum a segment is willing to pay. As you raise your prices above this threshold, fewer potential customers will enter the market to buy. Customers will always be happier with lower prices.

On the other hand, you might actually make more money by charging higher prices. You will lose some customers, but if everyone else pays the higher price, the net revenue could be higher. It all depends upon the price elasticity (price sensitivity) of the segment.

To learn more about Market Research, consult the Help file: Market Research.















Your market research firm has tried to derive an estimate of the potential demand by segment and geographic market. The researchers asked each customer:

How likely they would be to purchase a bicycle in the next 12 months.
How many products each customer would be likely to purchase if the customer decided to buy.
To complete the data collection, the researchers then counted the number of potential customers in each geographic market by segment.

It might seem strange to ask how many bicycles a potential customer might buy since most would only purchase one for themselves. However, there are occasions when a person would purchase more than one for him or herself (a mountain and a speed bike) or purchase a bike for a spouse or child. As a result, the average number of units purchased is actually more than 1.0. In certain bike-friendly cities, everyone in the family might have a bike and it would not be unusual for a family to purchase more than one bike in a given year.

Taking all of these factors into consideration, the researchers applied the following equation to estimate market potential in each geographic location:

FORMULA
Market potential = probability of purchase × number of units × number of potential customers.
YOUR TASK
Review the potential market size of each segment and geographic market. The data indicates how many units could be purchased over the next 12 months. There is a separate estimate for market potential for each segment in each city.
DECISION TIP
Note that the data indicates the potential demand for the next 12 months. You might assume that 25% of the market potential would be realized in any quarter (as there are four quarters in a year). But this is not likely to happen.

First, the quality of your firm's decisions and those of your competitors will affect demand. In the early stages of market development, everyone’s marketing efforts and products are likely to be weak simply due to a lack of experience.

Second, it will take a few quarters for customers to learn about your new brands and their benefits. They might even be skeptical in the beginning.

For these reasons, actual demand is likely to be much less than potential demand in the early quarters. The opposite could be true a year from now.

Finally, be cautious in using this market information. At best, these estimates are very rough projections. Buying intentions are notorious for being wrong about actual purchases. The actual purchase rate will ultimately depend upon how well the product is designed, priced, advertised, and distributed, as well as how well you and your competition serve the market.

To learn more about Market Research, consult the Help file: Market Research.


















Customer Needs

Customer Needs and Wants
One-time report prepared for your company.

Recreation	

Mountain	

Speed
Simple to use	121	100	71
Safety	122	108	114
Low price point	118	98	69
Sleek	104	85	117
Stylish	112	118	118
Easy to ride	129	97	104
Comfortable	123	100	98
Can handle rough terrain	108	127	78
Can stop quickly	113	120	106
Precise speed control-turns, hills	102	110	115
Able to carry things	117	104	71
Durable	110	129	122
Feel young at heart	123	115	118
Ability to turn sharply	110	123	105
Light weight	116	119	128
Speed	109	109	129
Aerodynamic	79	89	124
Status symbol/exclusivity	114	118	121
Navigation assistance	113	116	122
Soften the impact of rough terrain	116	121	90
Segments by Application
One-time report prepared for your company.

Recreation	

Mountain	

Speed
Recreation	129	115	106
Exercise	115	118	121
Relaxation	122	108	102
Fun	123	115	102
Adventure	112	129	117
Sport	81	120	129





Price Willing to Pay
One-time report prepared for your company.

Recreation	

Mountain	

Speed
900	1,120	1,300
Price Willing t



12-Month Potential Demand
One-time report prepared for your company.

Recreation	

Mountain	

Speed
New York City	5,836	4,962	4,833
Rio de Janeiro	4,978	3,771	2,304
Amsterdam	6,830	3,428	4,415
Bangalore	5,892	3,394	2,822






Your sales channel strategy and decisions will revolve around the selection of sales outlets and staffing of sales and service people. However, before you begin to make tactical decisions, it is important to have an overall sales channel strategy to guide these tactical decisions. Review the available information regarding the market opportunity and the sales outlet options and then formulate your sales channel strategy.

In the next quarter, you will test market your business strategy. However, it takes a full quarter to open a sales office. Therefore, you must schedule the opening of your first sales channel in the current quarter.

YOUR TASK
You must decide where your first sales outlet will be located for the test market.
Next quarter, you will have to hire sales and service people and decide how you want them to focus their efforts.
The Territory Development section of the Help file provides some valuable information on what to think about when you enter a market.